So what is debugging?

If you have been into coding at some point in time, debugging comes naturally to you.

But most functional consultants do not come from a coding background.

So how do we understand debugging?

Let me take an example of golf, and then through that example, I'm going to introduce debugging to

you.

When I was trying to learn golf.

I really had a lot of trouble doing that swing.

For example.

What do I do?

I take the club to a certain angle and then start a swing.

Right.

So this is what we do in golf and when we are doing that.

We start with some goals in mind, right?

What do we want?

We want the ball to go a certain distance, and in order to do that, the swing needs to be done with

a certain speed.

A certain angle, a certain way in which it should contact the ball.

So many different parameters and a computer program is not much different.

Right.

If you take a program, say a cost center report, I'm taking this report because it's available in

any standard IDs system.

It's a program, custom program.

So what does any typical report have?

It has input parameters where you tell the system what are the parameters based on which you want the

system to perform a search or execute an operation.

It could be cost center dates, cost center number, employee number, so on and so forth.

And then.

We have output and output is typically.

A grid of data.

And what happens in between.

Is that SAP executes a program, a program quite similar to how my mind runs the program of doing that

golf swing.

Now, if I can hit the ball exactly the way I want, everybody can be Tiger Woods.

But of course I'm not.

So I have a problem with my golf swing.

So I start here, right?

And go here.

In the swing and I want to do, say, 100 yards.

In a certain direction.

I try ten times, 20 times, but I am not able to do it accurately or I'm missing consistency.

I'm not able to do it every time.

So there is something wrong with my swing.

I'm just taking 100 yards as an example.

It could be any distance, any direction.

So after trying these swings for like a week or two, I really got tired.

And then one of the coaches recommended that I go to a program.

So I went there.

And what they have done is they put a high speed camera.

And then the camera.

Recorded me doing a bunch of swings.

That's it.

And then later they put it on a computer and then they were able to analyze my swing.

So you start here.

And then.

On the first millisecond.

I'm here.

The second millisecond, I'm here.

Blah, blah, blah.

And I want it to hit 100 yards.

And the speed over here.

Should have been 80mph.

Say.

And in order to have that, I needed to have a speed of.

50mph here.

But do I have it?

Well, they froze the frame here.

Right here.

They were able to analyze that my speed was not 50.

But it was 35 or 40, so I was not doing the right speeds was one of the interpretation that they got.

How did they do that when the entire swing was on the high speed camera?

They could freeze it at any point in time and then analyze parameters.

So at this point in time, they did two things.

They did freeze or pause the frame and then.

They inspect for values.

And he was able to analyze that.

You know, my speed should have been so much my direction should have been so much.

The point being he was able to freeze or pause the entire swing and then inspect for values at any given

point in time during that swing.

This is debugging.

There is a problem with my swing and he was able to find out where the problem is.

So in the same way, if we execute this transaction, Z cost, which is a cost center report, hit,

execute and then these are the input parameters.

And when you execute it, it's going to produce some output parameters.

And behind the scenes, like I said, there is a program that executes a bunch of logic and produces

a result.

What logic is being executed.

So go to system.

Status.

And this is the program that's being executed by ACP to get that desired results.

Now I'm doing a control C, copying the name of the program, and I'm going to show you how the program

looks like.

So if we go back and go to transaction C 38.

Hit Enter Ctrl v.

I pasted the program here and click on display.

And this is the program that SAP is executing behind the scenes.

To get me the results of the Cost center report.

Now, just like my coach has frozen the frame at a certain point in time.

I could do that too.

I could place my cursor wherever I want.

Think of it like a particular angle of the swing or whatever.

And then hit on this button.

Breakpoint.

So it's put a breakpoint here.

Now.

Let me open another window and try to execute the same transaction again.

Z cost Z cost.

Enter and execute.

So SAP is connecting to the debugger.

And then I've asked it to freeze or pause the program at a particular point, and it has done that.

Now you can inspect for certain values in variables.

Well, we are going to see that in some of the later videos, but you get the general idea.

So what is debugging?

So debugging is the process of freezing or pausing?

The execution of a program.

To do what?

To inspect for values.

You want to inspect for speed, you want to inspect for angle.

In this case, you want to inspect whether it's looking at the right tables and whether it's looking

at the right dates, whether it's looking at the right cost centers, whether it's looking at the right

employees.

So these are some of the values that you might want to inspect if this program is not running right

and you proceed step by step.

Or frame by frame to analyze how the code is flowing.

And all of this to do what you do, all of this to find out if the program is working according to the

expectations or not.

If the program is working fine, you you would not have to do debugging.

But if there is something wrong with the program, that's when you would want to analyze and freeze

and do all these things and this process.

Is called debugging.

This is the definition of debugging.

Now, I was able to freeze the program, All right?

But I don't understand the language.

I don't understand what include this means.

I don't understand these tables.

But what good is the process if you do not understand the underlying program?

Well, we don't need to learn the entire language, but in the next set of chapters, we'll see some

of the use cases where we as functional consultants are going to find this debugging extremely useful.

So see you in the next chapter.