# Material Master - Delta Changes

## Introduction
In this section, we will discuss the changes in the Material Master in SAP S/4HANA. Compared to the Customer Master, there are fewer changes in the Material Master. Structurally, it remains the same with some fields removed, a new material type added, and changes to the material length.

## Key Changes

### 1. Material Master Field Length
- **Previous Length**: 18 characters (default)
- **New Length**: 40 characters (default is still 18 characters)
- **Activation**: To utilize the full 40 characters, you need to activate this feature in the system settings.

#### Steps to Activate Extended Field Length
1. Navigate to `SPRO > IMG > Cross-Application Components > General Application Functions > Field Length Extension`.
2. Click on `Activate Extension Fields`.
3. Go to `New Entries` and check the option to use the entire 40 characters in all external interface communication.

#### Example
- When creating a material, you can now use up to 40 characters.
- However, external systems may still use the old 18-character format unless explicitly configured otherwise.

### 2. Removal of Foreign Trade Data
- **Previous**: Foreign trade data was part of the Material Master.
- **Current**: Foreign trade data is no longer relevant in S/4HANA and has been moved to the Global Trade Services (GTS) module.

### 3. New Material Type: SERV
- **Name**: SERV (Service)
- **Views Available**: Accounting, Sales, Purchasing, Basic Data
- **Purpose**: Simplify the way Material Master is used and created.

### 4. Field Changes
- Various field changes have been made, which will be discussed in more detail later.

## Summary
The main changes in the Material Master are:
1. Material master field length increased to 40 characters.
2. Removal of foreign trade data.
3. Introduction of a new material type "SERV".
4. Various field changes (details to be discussed later).


And one of the previous sections.

We have seen the changes in the customer master.

In this section.

We are going to talk about the changes in the Material master.

This is probably going to be the simplest section.

The reason being there are not a lot of changes in the material Master.

Structurally it has not changed.

It's still the same old transaction.

010203.

There are some fields that have been removed.

New material type added.

The material length changed.

Beyond that.

There are not a lot of changes from a functional perspective.

What do I mean by that from a functional perspective?

Technically behind the scenes, there are a couple of changes.

That we as functional consultants need not worry about a lot.

Like the impact of some other field changes on interfaces.

Bobbys Idox These are things that we don't need to worry about.

The first change and probably the only change is that the material master field length.

Remember earlier it was 18 characters.

Utmost.

You could have it for 12.

You could have it for ten, but utmost.

Technically, the description of that material master field length or the technical definition of that

field length is 18 characters.

Now this has been changed to 40.

40 characters.

You can let it remain at 18 if you want.

So in fact, by default s four Hana still restricts it to 18 characters.

But behind the scenes, the domain itself has changed to 40.

So if I go to zero three on my right, I have s four Hana system and on my left in green I have the

plane system.

So if I take a material M0 two or M0 one, any material you see the length of that material number has

changed.

It's now bigger.

Right on the left.

If you see the same transaction display material, the material number or the material length is shorter.

How short is it?

So if you go to F1 help, I'm going to do the same here.

Go to technical data and double click on the data element.

I'll do the same thing here.

Double click on the data element.

You see the difference?

In its 18 characters.

The definition of the domain itself in s four Hana this is 40 characters.

However, like I said, this is switched off by default.

The length of the domain is 40 characters, meaning technically the material length can take on 40 characters,

but by default it's not set to 40 characters.

As as for Hannah comes out of the box, you want to see that?

So if you go to SPRO.

IMG.

Go to cross application components.

And underneath that general application functions.

Underneath that field length extension.

So click on Activate Extension Fields.

Go to new entries.

So unless you check this on.

ACP will not use the entire 40 characters in all external interface communication.

You can very well create the material with 40 characters if you go to zero one, for example.

Slash 001.

Slash n.

Zero one.

And if you see one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine one, two, three, four,

five, six, seven, eight, nine.

One, two, three.

Da da da.

So it's 40 characters, really.

So when you create your material master, it's 40 characters in length.

But when you use interfaces to communicate, say, sales orders, purchase orders.

Using dogs or any kind of mechanism.

SAP still uses the old 18 characters.

That is because the baby is in all the systems that are built in place are basically built with 18 characters

internally.

Things can change easily within SAP because it's a domain change.

So if you are from a technical background, that's easy to understand.

But for a functional consultant, it's like this.

The definition of material number has changed.

That means anywhere the material number is referenced.

It's now 40 characters.

That's easy.

But when it comes to interfaces, the external systems do not know what is the definition of material

Master in SAP.

So they have a different mechanism.

And thereby.

Explicitly you have to check on.

This flag and save so that sap starts to use the extended fields for communicating with external partners

or systems.

When it comes to the material master.

So this is the first thing that you have to do, really enable the material to be 40 characters across

the landscape.

The second transaction is where you specify the format of the material master itself.

So if you go to SQL double click on that.

You see the material length is 40 characters.

Here, you can restrict it, so you can restrict it to 18 characters.

You can restrict it to 20 characters, 15 characters.

So by default in SAP s four Hana instance that comes out of the box.

This is 40 characters.

So I would suggest that you restrict it to 18 so that there is no confusion.

But if you really want the material number to be greater than 18, go ahead and do the change here and

restrict it to a certain number.

So all right.

So that is the first change, right?

This is the main change.

The second change is foreign trade.

Data that you see in the material Master is no longer relevant in S four Hana.

So foreign trade as it is used without.

Is now completely out of Assisi.

So foreign trade.

Data.

The foreign trade data in the material master is gone.

Completely gone.

Now all foreign trade transactions are out of sap ec.

There are no part of GDS.

So if you're surprised to see that there is no foreign trade data in the material Master, that's because

in S four Hana there is no foreign trade data in the Material Master.

It's all part of BTS.

The third change is the introduction of a new material type.

It's called serve.

A CRV.

As the name suggests, it's intended to be used for service, and the views available in this type of

material is really very minimal.

There is an accounting view, there is a sales view, there is a purchasing view.

Basic data.

I believe the intention of creating this material type is to simplify the way Material Master is used

and created.

The fourth change is in the fields.

And we'll not understand this at this point until we come to life.

So we'll not focus on this yet.

So just for changes material master field length is changed to 40 characters.

Foreign trade data has been removed.

New material type has been introduced and there are a host of changes in the fields of the material

master that we'll discuss when we come to live.